in this section will move on to look at another type of Advanced Excel formula called an
array formula,
and to start the ball rolling in this video.
Well,
look at exactly what in a rape Bolnar is.
So in 07 rate formulas,
let's open 01 array formula basics.
The classic implementation of formula in Excel is to create an initial formula and then to
copy that formula into adjacent cells.
So,
for example,
in this worksheet,
which contains rows of data,
each of which recorded sales transaction,
if we wanted to have a total price on each row,
we would create a simple formula which multiplied the quantity by the unit price.
And then we'd copy this four minute down for every road,
having added the total formula for every road we could then aggregate that Total column.
But what if we were only interested in the aggregation?
What if the row by row D sale was purely an overhead,
a calculation overhead which had to be tolerated every time we opened the workbook.
For example,
in this work feet,
we have 34,000 rows.
What if we had half,
um,
Indian,
so clearly place in a calculation on every single road when all you want is toe aggregate,
that calculation is quite an overhead,
and it's in this kind of scenario that you can use what's called an array formula.
Before we get into the nuts and bolts of how rate formulas work,
let's create a couple of useful named ranges for ourselves,
which we can then reference in our formula.
The two columns were interested in analysing our quantity in Munich price when working with
a Wraith formulas because they're so process or intensive,
Excel doesn't allow you to reference an entire column,
so for that reason will need to create a reference purely to the data.
So the unit price we click in J one and press control ship Down Arrow to select all the way
to the bottom of the data and then to name the selected data.
We can get across to the Formulas tab and in the defined names group,
click on Create from Selection and we ask Excel to use the text in the top row as the name
of the range,
and then let's do the same for quantity.
You're gonna one press control shift down arrow and then create from selection,
extracting the name from the top row.
And if we click on the name box,
we can see the two names which have been created.
No space is allowed,
so unit underscore Price is automatically applied to the original text unit price.
Let's now move across to the summary work feeds and look at the aggregation that we want to
perform the 1st 2 white into straightforward because they only require reference to one
color to find the unit.
So we simply need to refer to the quantity column so we can say equal some and then use the
quantity name that Excel has just created for us.
And then similarly,
the average equals average and again quantity,
so the average quantity per transaction is 11.
And if we wanted a bit more precision,
you could just increase the number of decimals.
However,
when we come to do the total on average revenue,
it's not quite so straightforward,
because what we want to do now is to multiply the quantity by the unit price on.
We have to do this on a row by row basis.
So the very thing that we're trying to escape doing individual calculations.
We still have to find a way of achieving on the way that it's achieved in an array formula
is that you can perform calculations on an entire array.
Honore is simply a collection of values,
so in this case we have an array,
which has a width of one Colin on a height of 34,000 rows.
The values within that range constitute the array and what you're permitted to do in an
array formula.
What you can't do in an ordinary formula is to carry out operations on entire arrays,
And the thing that makes it work is the fact that the arrays in this case both have exactly
the same shape.
They've got the same number of columns in the same number of rows,
and therefore,
when we perform a calculation on the to raise,
Excel simply marries up each of the rose within the two arrays,
so formula will still need to use the some function and will only need a single argument.
But that argument is a calculation on the calculation involves to a raise the array that
we've called quantity,
which is all the data in the quantity column needs to be multiplied by the array,
called Unit Price.
And because both the rays have the same shape,
Excel is able to multiply the quantity on the first row of the array by the first unit
price,
second quantity by second unit price all the way down to the bottom on the result of
calculating,
each row is stored in a virtual array,
an array that exists only in memory.
And,
of course,
battery has the same shape.
One column,
34,000 rows.
So the sum function will simply be the total off this result in virtual array.
So now that we have the luxury of named Ranges,
the function is very simple.
It's all right.
We need equal,
some quantity multiplied by unit price as a normal excel formula.
It doesn't make any sense.
A normal Excel formula would require us to multiply a single value by a mother single value
,
for example,
see to my D to so we simply press enter.
The result that we get will never be the correct one.
So what we have to tell Excel is that this is not an ordinary formula.
We want the entire A raise to be included in The calculation on the signal that Microsoft
came up with is that you press control shift enter to indicate that this is an array for
regular instead of precedence,
I press control ship Bento.
Then we get the result that we're looking for,
and we can do the same thing for the average equals average quantity multiplied by unit
price.
But the important thing here is that we then press control shift,
enter,
and we probably want to show the decimals on this one.
That's the basic introduction to how array formulas work.
So the key thing it's performing a calculation on rays of data rather than on individual
cells.
And to signal this to excel,
you press control shift enter.
And that's often abbreviated to C.
S E.
So when you're searching on Google,
if you search for CSE formulas,
you're talking about a ray formulas,
which require that you press control shift,
enter whenever you create or edit the formula